What is next on our program?
Well, we have five talks
that are going to be given
by five members of the Governing Body.
Now, as you listen to these talks,
one of them is going to reveal to us
some adjusted understanding;
another is going to tell us
about the yeartext for next year.
Other talks are going to motivate us,
and then another talk
is going to show
a change in our ministry.
Have I got your attention?
Well, to start off
this intriguing series of talks,
we’re going to invite
Brother David Splane
to talk to us on this intriguing title,
“Ezekiel’s Temple Vision and You!”
Well,
did you enjoy your tour?
Not your tour of Warwick,
Wallkill, Patterson,
but did you enjoy the tour
that we recently made
of the temple
that we’ve been reading about
in the book of Ezekiel?
Now, that was quite a tour.
Could you imagine that we were transported
onto an extremely high mountain,
and we were given a vision
of an imposing temple complex?
And we had quite a tour guide
—didn’t we?—
an angel
whose appearance was of copper,
and he showed us some wonderful things.
Well, it’s all very interesting.
But what does it mean?
Now, for many years,
our publications have stated
that the temple that Ezekiel saw
was Jehovah’s great spiritual temple,
and we came to that conclusion
because there are, admittedly,
some similarities between the tabernacle
that Moses was connected with
and the temple of Ezekiel.
And so the thought was
that the temple of Ezekiel
and the tabernacle
represented the same thing.
We know that the tabernacle
represents the spiritual temple
because the apostle Paul said so.
Well, it’s true that there are similarities
between the tabernacle and Ezekiel’s temple,
but there are major differences as well.
The tabernacle
really focuses on the high priest
and the sacrifice that he made
on the Day of Atonement.
So we can say that the tabernacle
is really centered on the future work
that Jesus was going to do
as the great High Priest
and the sacrifice that he was going to make.
Now, what about the temple that Ezekiel saw?
Is there a high priest?
No.
What about the Day of Atonement?
Is the Day of Atonement mentioned?
No, it is not.
So we can see that there are differences
between the tabernacle
and the temple of Ezekiel.
Now, right up front, let’s be clear;
Ezekiel was not touring
the spiritual temple.
Let’s see why not.
But first, let’s review what Brother Lösch
told us about the spiritual temple.
What is it?
Now, Brother Lösch
said that it’s an arrangement.
But he didn’t stop there, did he?
He said,
“It’s an arrangement for worship
based on the sacrifice of Christ.”
Now, what do we know
about the sacrifice of Christ?
Let’s take the Bible
and turn to Hebrews chapter 9,
Hebrews chapter 9,
and we’re going to read verses 11 and 12
—Hebrews 9:11, 12.
Paul writes:
“However,
when Christ came as a high priest
of the good things
that have already taken place.”
So the spiritual temple
was actually in existence
in Jesus’ day
because these things
had “already taken place.”
“He passed through the greater
and more perfect tent
“not made with hands,
that is, not of this creation.
“He entered into the holy place,
“not [not] with the blood
“of goats and of young bulls,
“but with his own blood,
once for all time.”
So, what do we learn from this?
Well, we learn
that Jesus’ sacrifice was offered
“once for all time”
and that the blood of bulls and goats
doesn’t enter the picture.
One sacrifice
—and that’s enough.
After that,
there are no grain offerings,
there are no guilt offerings,
there are no whole burnt offerings,
and there are no sin offerings,
because that one sacrifice
of Christ is enough.
The spiritual temple is centered
around the sacrifice of Christ.
Now, what did we see
when we toured Ezekiel’s temple?
Grain offerings, sin offerings,
guilt offerings,
the blood of bulls and goats,
and even purification for the priests,
who don’t at all seem
to have been declared righteous
by means of their faith
in the blood of Christ.
So we can see that there’s something
different about Ezekiel’s temple,
and really, Ezekiel and Paul
cover different ground.
So if you’re taking notes,
this is the time to make a little note.
From Paul
we learn about Jehovah’s
arrangement for worship.
From Ezekiel we learn about Jehovah’s,
wait for it,
Jehovah’s standard for worship.
From Ezekiel we learn
about Jehovah’s standard for worship.
Now, what do we learn
about Jehovah’s standards
from those nine chapters of Ezekiel?
Well, He has high standards;
He has very high standards.
Now, think about it.
Where was Ezekiel’s temple located?
Was it located
on a mountain of average height,
Mount Moriah maybe
or the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem?
No,
it was located
“on a very high mountain.”
A temple
“on a very high mountain”
—a house of Jehovah
—maybe even above the tops
of the mountains.
Where have I heard about that before?
Didn’t I read something
about that somewhere in the Bible?
Yes, Isaiah 2:2.
Let’s read it
—Isaiah 2:2.
It says:
“In the final part of the days.”
That doesn’t sound like 29 C.E.,
does it?
“In the final part of the days,
“the mountain of the house of Jehovah
“will become firmly established
above the top of the mountains,
“and it will be raised up above the hills,
and to it all the nations will stream.”
Well, now, that prophecy
helps us to understand
when Ezekiel’s temple vision
finds its major fulfillment
—not in 29 C.E.
when we first see
the spiritual temple take shape,
but “in the final part of the days.”
Now, what is it that is
“firmly established
above the top of the mountains”?
We know the answer to that.
It’s Jehovah’s worship, isn’t it?
And so Jehovah’s worship is established
“above the top of the mountains”
“in the final part of the days.”
So Ezekiel’s temple vision must be fulfilled
“in the final part of the days,”
not in 29 C.E.
Now, the mountain that Ezekiel saw
is not the only thing that’s elevated.
There are gates leading to the temple area,
and you know, those gates
are some 100 feet (30 m) tall.
And there are guard chambers
at the entryways
so that no unclean person can come in.
Why?
Because Jehovah’s high standards of morality
must be respected.
Now, there’s another striking feature
of Ezekiel’s temple.
There was a wall around the entire perimeter,
the entire temple area.
Now, each side was almost a mile
(1.6 km) long,
but the temple itself was only
about 850 feet (260 m) to a side.
So you have
the little temple area, relatively,
and then you have
this great expanse all around.
We have a picture.
Maybe this will give us an idea.
Do you see the temple in the middle there
and then that wide perimeter
and the wall around the temple?
Why?
Jehovah answered at Ezekiel 43:9:
“Let them put
their spiritual prostitution . . .
far away from me.”
Now, someone who was familiar
with the layout of ancient Jerusalem
would understand this because,
really, there was only a wall that separated
the temple in Jerusalem
from ordinary housing.
So as the people began to worship idols
and they brought immorality
and all kinds of horrible things
into their homes,
they were actually bringing this
right up against the wall of the temple.
So Jehovah God is saying: “No more!
“Enough!
I want to keep it far away from me.”
Now, Ezekiel’s temple vision has a major
and a minor fulfillment.
So we’ll talk
about the minor fulfillment for a moment.
In chapter 8,
Ezekiel described conditions that prevailed
when the temple of Solomon was functioning:
Seventy men offering incense
to “creeping things and loathsome beasts,”
“25 men . . . bowing down to the sun,”
‘women weeping for the god Tammuz.’
But to his great relief,
Ezekiel sees none of that
in his temple vision.
Instead, he sees pure worship
being carried on in the way
that he would have understood
and that would have had
Jehovah’s approval back then.
So after the Jews were released
from Babylonian captivity,
they would be able
to worship Jehovah acceptably.
After the Jews were released
from Babylonian captivity,
they would be able
to restore pure worship
in the way that Jehovah approved.
But now, the title of this talk is
“Ezekiel’s Temple . . . and You!”
So where do we fit into the picture?
Well, it’s simple.
We are living in the time of the fulfillment
of Ezekiel’s temple vision.
And in the major fulfillment,
we find that true worship has been restored.
Since when?
Well, since when in particular
has “the mountain of the house of Jehovah”
been ‘lifted up above the tops
of the mountains’?
Since 1919.
What a coincidence
—because in 1919,
Jehovah’s people were also freed
from captivity to Babylon the Great!
And so after being freed
from captivity to Babylon the Great,
now we see an improvement
in pure worship
—getting better and better.
And since that time,
Jehovah has progressively guided us
to adopt his high standards.
Now think about his high moral standards.
Nobody is admitted
to a permanent association
with the organization
until they have the approval of the elders
—until the elders say,
“Yes, they are acceptable.”
Now, I think back 65 years ago
when I started publishing,
and I know that many of you
have been publishers a lot longer than that.
But I can remember back
65 years ago when I started to publish,
and I just turned in a report;
nobody asked me any questions.
You didn’t have to be approved.
When you got baptized, you didn’t go through
the questions with the elders;
there were no elders.
No more, no more.
We can see how Jehovah
has progressively raised the standard.
And what about unrepentant wrongdoers?
They’re not allowed
to remain in the congregation
—that wasn’t always the case.
So we can see how Jehovah God
has been progressively guiding us,
leading us, to a better
and better relationship with him.
Now, he’s also cleansed
his people spiritually.
Think about what’s happened since 1919
—how Jehovah’s people have worked hard
to keep spiritual uncleanness
far away from pure worship,
casting off false doctrines and practices
tainted with idolatry and paganism.
And what has been the result?
Jehovah has blessed his people,
and there is tangible proof of that blessing.
Nations are streaming
to “the mountain of the house of Jehovah,”
and they come because they have heard
that God is with his people.
So, what have we learned
from this brief discussion?
This:
While the spiritual temple
is Jehovah’s arrangement for worship,
Ezekiel’s temple emphasizes
God’s standards for worship.
And what else have we learned?
This:
We see the arrangement
of the spiritual temple
since 29 C.E.,
but we see the fulfillment
Ezekiel’s temple vision
since 1919.
Well, we’re grateful
to our angelic tour guide
for the remarkable visit
that we’ve had to the temple.
But we’re also more grateful to Jehovah God
for helping us to see
what that remarkable vision
means for you and for me today.
We want to thank you very much,
Brother Splane,
for such a clear explanation.
And clear as it was,
we’re all looking forward to the replay
—aren’t we?—
so that we can get all those details,
because that was a very interesting
and exciting discussion.
Well, next on our program,
Brother Mark Sanderson of the Governing Body
is going to talk to us
on this interesting theme,
“Never Ever Lose Hope.”
Hope is absolutely essential
to our strength as Christians.
No hope equals no power.
Proverbs 18:14 says:
“A person’s spirit
“can sustain him through illness,
but who can bear a crushed spirit?”
Or if you look at the footnote:
“Who can bear complete despair?”
What’s the point?
No hope equals no power.
But then there’s also
low hope equals low power.
Proverbs 24:10 says:
“If you become discouraged
in the day of distress,
your strength will be meager.”
Low hope equals low power.
Well, immediately we see
why it is so important for us as Christians
that we never ever lose hope.
Hebrews 6:19 says
that ‘hope is the anchor of our souls’
or, the footnote, ‘the anchor of our lives.’
But now, brothers, what is hope?
That’s a word we use all the time,
but what does it really mean?
The original-language words
that are used in the Bible
that are translated “hope”
mean to wait eagerly
and to expect good.
So hope is not simply
the desire for something good.
It also includes the basis
for believing that that good thing
is going to come.
Now let’s look at an illustration:
We might wish that a friend
would come to our aid
and help us during a time of trial.
But now, what if that friend
had helped us many, many times before?
Well, now it changes, doesn’t it?
Now our hope is not simply wishful thinking.
There is a real reason to believe
that that friend will help us.
You see, that is real hope,
not just the desire for something good,
but the real basis to believe
that we can receive it.
Well now, brothers,
what could cause us
to begin to lose hope?
Well, I don’t think I need to tell you this,
but life in this system
is certainly not trouble-free.
Were you aware of that?
Most of us, we recognize
that our physical bodies are breaking down.
If you’re over 50,
no doubt you’ve had to learn a new alphabet:
EKG, MRI,
HDL, LDL,
and the list goes on and on.
If you don’t know what that means,
well, OK, I give up.
But in addition
to our own health problems
and challenges,
we have to cope
with the health problems
of our close relatives
or perhaps our marriage mate,
our elderly parents,
or whatever it may be.
And in addition to that,
we also have to cope
with the loss
of some of our very dear
loved ones in death.
What if you live in Venezuela?
Because of the unrest in that country,
the reports that we have received
as of August 10 indicate that 47,
47 of our brothers and sisters
have been murdered in that land.
And many more have been victims
of other terrible criminal acts.
Our hearts go out
to our brothers in Venezuela.
What if you live in Texas
or Mexico or the Caribbean?
Well, you know that they have just had
devastating natural disasters.
Some of our brothers have lost their homes,
their places of worship,
as well as virtually
all of their material things.
What if you live in Russia?
In that land, 175,000 of our brothers
can now no longer worship
Jehovah in freedom.
Well, if we were to continue to focus
our attention on all
of these negative things,
this would not be the Kingdom Hall;
it would be the Wailing Wall.
Isn’t that true?
But I have to tell you, brothers,
that is not the spirit of Jehovah’s people.
That is not the spirit in the room right now.
It is not the spirit of God’s people
anywhere on the face of this earth.
Despite all of the challenges
that we are experiencing,
we do not give up!
Do you agree?
Now, why is this the case?
Isaiah chapter 40 has the answer for us.
Now let’s begin reading here in verse 26.
The prophet encourages us to look up.
It says:
“Lift up your eyes to heaven and see.
“Who has created these things?
“It is the One who brings out
their army by number;
“he calls them all by name.
“Because of his vast dynamic energy
“and his awe-inspiring power,
not one of them is missing.”
Well, what’s the point?
You see, the Source of our hope,
the One we put our confidence in
—Jehovah—
has “vast dynamic energy”;
he has “awe-inspiring power.”
Look at verse 28:
“Do you not know?
“Have you not heard?
“Jehovah,
the Creator of the ends of the earth,
“is a God for all eternity.
“He never tires out or grows weary.
His understanding is unsearchable.”
Yes, Jehovah is the ultimate
Power Source in the universe.
He never grows tired;
he never grows weary.
But now, how do we benefit?
Because we put our hope in him.
Well, look at what verse 29 says:
“He gives power to the tired one
and full might to those lacking strength.”
Well, now, is this something
that we can connect somehow
to our physical power?
In other words,
that somehow Jehovah
invigorates our own physical bodies?
Well, not really,
because look at verse 30, at what it says:
“Boys will tire out and grow weary,
and young men will stumble and fall.”
So this help from Jehovah
is not connected to our physical strength.
It’s not connected to our age
or our physical power.
What really, then,
is the key to our gaining this power
from this unlimited
Power Source that is Jehovah?
Well, verse 31:
“But those hoping in Jehovah
will regain power.”
Well, now, that’s an interesting expression.
Problems, pressures, persecution,
ban, imprisonment, natural disaster
—the list goes on and on and on.
If we focus our attention
on all of these problems and difficulties,
what happens?
We just feel our battery
being completely drained
—we lose all of our power.
But what happens when we turn our attention
to our magnificent God, Jehovah?
What happens when we remember
how much Jehovah loves us?
how many times Jehovah has come through
and given us exactly what we need
exactly at the right time?
We immediately, as verse 31 says,
we immediately begin to “regain power.”
We feel it coming back into us.
And although we may have been like a tree
that has lost its leaves and just looks
like it’s dead, what happens?
Well, we put forth new shoots,
and we begin to come back to life
because of the power
that’s coming from Jehovah.
Well, as a result,
what does the end of the verse say?
“They will soar on wings like eagles.
“They will run and not grow weary;
they will walk and not tire out.”
Brothers, what’s the point?
No hope, no power;
low hope, low power;
hope in Jehovah, unlimited power!
Would you agree?
When we hope in Jehovah,
we can walk, we can run,
we can fly, we can even soar
if we never ever lose hope in Jehovah.
Now, brothers, I want to tell you,
this is not pop psychology.
This is not the power of positive thinking.
Wherever I go on this beautiful earth
and I have the opportunity
to meet Jehovah’s people,
I have seen with my own eyes
how Jehovah is renewing
the power of his people.
They are never conquered
by the situations they are facing.
The power from Jehovah
is helping them to remain firm.
What about our dear brothers in Venezuela?
Despite the many problems and pressures
that have come
upon our brothers in that land
due to the unrest that’s occurring,
did you know that in 2014
there were 26,252 regular pioneers
in that land
but this year in May of 2017,
in the midst of all of these problems
that are occurring in that country,
they recorded an all-time peak
in regular pioneers
—34,353,
an increase of more than 8,000?
What do you think of that?
Those dear brothers are not accomplishing
that in their own strength.
They’re hoping in Jehovah,
and they’re renewing
or regaining their power.
What about those brothers
in the disaster relief areas?
Do you remember what Brother Breaux said
in the report on JW Broadcasting
about our brothers on the island of Tortola?
Their Kingdom Hall,
which they had been using for decades,
was destroyed, rendered unusable.
And yet what did the brothers do?
Every day they went and sat
in the Kingdom Hall parking lot.
Do you remember that?
And why?
Because they knew, they had confidence,
that this would be the place where the help
from Jehovah would originate.
And they were not disappointed.
Brother Breaux assures me
that now arrangements are being made
so that that Kingdom Hall is going
to be restored and back up in use
for the benefit
of our dear brothers in Tortola.
And what about
those dear brothers and sisters in Russia?
Well, what did Jehovah do
to make the spirit
of those brothers and sisters soar,
even though they were facing
a very, very difficult situation?
Please watch.
From elderly people to small children,
people in every walk of life
have all wanted
to express themselves in some way
and tell the authorities in Russia
how they feel
about this action
on Jehovah’s people worldwide.
It has had such
a unifying effect on our brotherhood.
I have no idea what Mr. Putin
will do when he opens
all these letters,
not just mine.
Having written these letters
shows how the whole organization
is upholding Jehovah’s sovereignty
in these last days.
I consider participating in this campaign
a great privilege.
Even though we are separated
by language and distance,
we are united by our love for Jehovah.
Jehovah’s servants may be considered
as a minority in Russia,
but we are associated
with a worldwide brotherhood.
And as a part
of the worldwide brotherhood,
I wanted to participate
this campaign by writing letters.
I wrote to the prime minister
so that he would let
my brothers go to the Kingdom Halls.
I am sending this letter
to ask the Russian government
to please allow Jehovah’s Witnesses
and their children
to worship Jehovah
because they are good.
“We are hard-pressed in every way,
“but not cramped beyond movement;
“we are perplexed,
“but not absolutely with no way out;
“we are persecuted, but not abandoned;
“we are knocked down,
but not destroyed.”
Brothers and sisters,
we do not know
what challenges await us in 2018.
However, we do know
that if we never ever lose hope in Jehovah,
we “will regain power.”
How appropriate, then,
that the Governing Body has chosen
for our 2018 yeartext
Isaiah 40:31:
“Those hoping in Jehovah will regain power.”
Yes, dear brothers and sisters,
we will always have access
to the ultimate Power Supply in the universe
if we never ever lose hope
in our magnificent,
our wonderful God, Jehovah.
Thank you very much, Brother Sanderson,
and we look forward to seeing that yeartext
continue to remind us of the need of hope.
Next on our program,
we have Brother Samuel Herd
of the Governing Body,
and we notice his title is
“Protected by Obedience.”
During this talk
if you should happen to hear
a new spiritual gem,
put it out of your mind.
I have nothing new to give you.
A mother deer parks
her baby fawn in tall grass.
She tells her baby to stay put,
and it does.
She leaves and does not return
for many hours.
In fact, its protection
depends on its obedience
to its mother’s command.
Now think back
when you were small children.
Didn’t your parents
lay down some commands
for you to follow
for your protection?
Let’s take a look at something.
Let’s go to Ephesians in our Bibles,
and let’s look at the sixth chapter
and a couple of the verses.
It says:
“Children, be obedient to your parents
“in union with the Lord,
for this is righteous.
“‘Honor your father and your mother’
“is the first command with a promise:
“That it may go well with you
and you may remain
a long time on the earth.’”
Now, all of us as adults
are children
under our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
And, of course, we’ll always
be children under Jehovah.
He expects us to be obedient children,
just like you would expect your child,
if you should have one,
to be obedient to you
and your suggestions
and perhaps some of your commands.
And when we are subjected
to Jehovah to this degree,
we’re protected.
And just as the scripture
said for the small children,
it applies to us as well:
“That it may go well with you.”
And we want it to go well with us.
That’s what we’re all about.
We want to serve Jehovah
loyally and faithfully
so that we can gain his “well done.”
And just as a child may ask his dad
“Why?”
Have you ever
had a child do you that way?
“Why?
Why do birds sing?”
Why is the sky blue?”
There’s no end to his why’s.
In fact, you may have answered,
“Do it because I told you to do it.”
Your answer was blunt;
there’s no doubt about that.
Now, why would you
answer a child bluntly like that?
Well, it may be because
of what he asked of you.
What was behind the why?
Well, he’s just too young;
he’s too young for you to go
and try to explain the why.
It may be that this example
could be a reality:
Your five-year-old little girl asks,
“Mommy, why does Jehovah
let babies die from lack of food?”
See, the little girl
just heard that on the television set:
Babies are dying from lack of food.
Mommy says, “Honey,”
and puts her arm around her little girl,
“it has to do with the issue of sovereignty
that was raised a long time ago.”
Some of you may have wondered
about that question
when you were small.
Even when you became adults
without a knowledge of the Bible,
you may have wondered,
‘Why does God’
—you didn’t know him by Jehovah—
‘Why does God let little children
starve to death?’
You’ve seen pictures
on television and in the movies
where a little baby is just
hanging on to his mother’s breast,
and there’s not a drop of milk
in that mommy’s breast—not one.
And you may have asked yourself
‘Why?’
But now you have the answer to why,
and you help so many others
to get the answer to why
—that God is not responsible
for the deaths of these children,
but there’s someone else
who is responsible.
And why has God delayed?
Well, we all know it’s because of an issue
that came on the scene years ago,
and it has to be settled
beyond question
—and it’s going to be settled
beyond question.
Think back,
Jehovah told the Israelites
to impound their source
of water to keep it clean.
Why?
He didn’t say.
Harmful germs could be present
but couldn’t be seen by the naked eye.
There was no microscope.
It wasn’t invented until the 1590’s.
They had to trust and obey for protection.
And we have to trust Jehovah too,
even today, for our protection.
And when we listen to Jehovah,
then we’re blessed.
And we want to listen to Jehovah.
Why?
Well, there’s a number of reasons:
He’s our Creator;
he’s our Life-Giver;
he’s our Life-Sustainer.
If he did not respond
in this loving way,
none of us would be here
—we would expire.
And we all know that.
So he’s loving.
Here’s another reason:
He’s lived longer than we have.
And if we live forever,
we will never catch up
to how long he has lived.
He’s been and seen more
than we have or ever will see.
He has more experience.
He has done things
that we have not done
and perhaps will never
ever be able to do.
I’d like to tell you a little story
about when I was a young boy.
We had a little house;
we had a fireplace.
In wintertime we’d gather
in the living room near the fireplace
and put coal in the fireplace,
some wood.
And at times
a piece of the fire would blow out,
come out, of the fireplace
and onto the living room carpet or linoleum.
And my dad would just pick it up in his hands
and toss it back in.
And I thought,
‘Well, my, that’s a grand thing to do.’
So the next time it blew out,
I grabbed ahold of it.
Never again.
I learned my lesson.
Now, my dad’s hands were calloused
because he was a mule driver,
and he held on to the reins
day in and day out
for years upon years.
And his hands were just like leather,
and so he knew
that he could hold that coal
for a short while and get rid of it,
and it would not burn him.
I did not have that knowledge.
I had not lived long enough
to gain that knowledge,
but my dad had.
You see, my dad was
56 years old when I was born.
And today,
if he would be here,
why, then he would be
138 years old.
So my dad never
was a young dad for me,
but he was a good dad.
And, of course, he was a strong man.
Jehovah created the sun.
How hot is the sun?
Well, they tell us at its surface
it’s 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit,
or 5,600 degrees Celsius.
At its core, or center,
it’s 27 million degrees Fahrenheit,
or 15 million degrees Celsius.
A cremation oven
is only 1,400 degrees
to 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit (760°-982°C)
in order to turn a body to ashes.
Now, just for the sake of impressing us
with Jehovah’s greatness—
Don’t add any real truth to this
because we do not know;
we only know that he created the sun.
But just to impress us
with Jehovah’s greatness,
we can say that he could juggle
the sun in his hands.
That’s our God, Jehovah.
New Jerusalem will not need
the sun for light.
The Bible tells us
“the glory of God illuminate[s] it.”
—Revelation 21:23.
When we obey
the direction Jehovah gives,
we are totally protected.
That’s why we are not worried
about the great tribulation.
What we have to worry about
is what comes up
before the great tribulation,
and the Devil is going
to do all that he can
to destroy our relationship with God.
Now, you can bet on that.
And he’s going to start with all of us.
He’s not going to select just individuals,
but he wants every one of us
to come over to his side of the issue.
And so he’s not going
to leave you without test.
So we’re going to be tested.
Now, some of you
may have already been tested to the limit.
We don’t know,
but Jehovah does.
If you have, well, then you
will not be tested to any other limit.
You may have a test,
but you’ve proven
that you will be able to survive that test.
But right now we need to learn
to follow the rules that Jehovah lays out.
The Bible mentions only two roads
for mankind to follow.
Here they are.
Matthew 7:13, 14 says:
“Go in through the narrow gate,
because broad is the gate
“and spacious is the road
leading off into destruction,
“and many are going in through it;
“whereas narrow is the gate
and cramped the road leading off into life,
and few are finding it.”
Now, you’re not
on the spacious road,
not at all;
disobedient travelers are on it
—those permitted
to do their own thing.
Innumerable people “dance”
along this wicked highway.
But you have chosen the cramped road,
and that’s the road that Jehovah
has pointed out for each and every one of us.
And he’s drawn us to him
—all because of what he sees in the heart.
Now, we may not be able to see
what Jehovah sees in the heart,
and that can work against us
if we’re not careful.
We can start talking about a brother
because of what we do see.
But Jehovah overlooks that,
he lets the blood of Jesus cover that.
And He looks for the good,
and He sees the good.
And He wants that person to gain life.
And He’s going to help that person,
even though we can’t see
the good that Jehovah God sees.
Now, perhaps in the near future,
our obedience will be put
to the test as never before.
Let’s not depend on the strength
that we have demonstrated in our past tests.
Neither should we conclude
that we are too spiritual
or too holy to cower under pressure.
Now is the time to make obedience a habit;
don’t wait till the test comes.
Peter—one of the strongest
of Jesus apostles—
and the other apostles
ran for their lives
the night Jesus was arrested.
But we find that Peter crept back,
but he stayed at a distance,
a good distance.
But when questioned,
he began to curse and swear,
saying: “I do not know
this man of whom you speak!”
That’s Mark 14:71.
Now, that’s Peter.
Are you as strong as Peter?
Maybe,
maybe not.
And it’s that maybe not that we care about.
So let’s not depend
on how long we’ve been in the truth;
let’s stay in the truth.
And the only way we’re going
to do that is to stay with Jehovah.
He’s helped us
to get his spiritual balance,
and we want to capture it
with every ounce of energy
that we possibly can
so that we do not falter
in any way and fall.
So thanks to Jehovah and Jesus,
we are here,
but let’s trust Jehovah 100 percent.
The Bible tells us:
“The one trusting in Jehovah
will be protected,”
and that’s what this talk is all about
—obedience
and praying for protection.
We need help to stay awake spiritually.
Help comes from our brothers and sisters.
The Bible says:
“Consider one another so as
to incite to love and fine works,
“not forsaking our meeting together,
as some have the custom,
“but encouraging one another,
and all the more so
as you see the day drawing near.”
Now, here’s an example:
You’re driving a car at night,
and it’s raining.
You can hear the rain hitting
against the top of the car,
and you can hear windshield wipers
slapping against the side of the windshield.
The lights from oncoming cars
are somewhat blinding.
All these things are sleep-inducing.
You begin to nod;
you’re about to fall asleep.
Your wife slaps you!
She’s sitting in the passenger seat.
She slaps you.
You regain control of yourself.
Aren’t you grateful for the slap?
She is.
Every meeting we attend is a slap
from Someone who loves us
to keep us awake spiritually.
So be obedient;
be there; be protected.
Your life depends on it.
Thank you very much, Brother Herd.
Now, I don’t know about you, but I got
at least two new points out of that.
I wrote them down
—don’t be thin-skinned,
and be willing to be slapped.
Do you know
—I love that talk.
I used to give talks
like that once too,
and then they made me the chairman.
I’m sorry, Brother Herd,
I had to wait 12 months to say that.